Roots october 2025
[Roots October 2025](https://openlifescience.civicrm.org/civicrm/mailing/view?id=374&reset=1)

OLS's approach to engage with our community and anyone working in an open, kind and diverse way! 

A way to nurture our community: providing information and support and empowering to keep growing. 


Always putting people first.

 
 

Have you ever opened an email and felt an instant warmth? A big feeling lifting you up instead of filling your brain with more to-dos?

This is Roots.
Roots is your reminder that the world isn't going to change on its own, so we want to encourage and empower you to contribute to the change you want to see. 
Because we all can do something. Some thing. And that thing can be the seed of a growing huge tree, or a small plant.

But, remember: nothing grows without roots.

🌱

 
What to expect in this newsletter? 
An brief intro to our team and what we do

OLS-related news: our new strategy!
Other news in the open landscape
A link to contribute to our next edition! 
 
 
👁️Who are the OLS team?

Yo Yehudi 
Co-executive director
Yo is the Co-Executive Director and co-founder of OLS, a Software Sustainability Institute Fellow, member of the board of directors of The Carpentries, and a researcher interested in open communities. A multiple-immigrant (NZ->Israel->UK) and a highschool dropout with a PhD, Yo enjoys cycling, nature, working with community all around the world and sowing friendly chaos wherever possible.


Patricia Herterich
Co-executive director
Patricia is one of OLS’s Co-Executive Directors and Software Sustainability Institute Fellow 2019. A librarian by training and Open Science enthusiast for about 15 years, her attention to detail has led to her being in charge of OLS finances. Though an introvert, she is passionate about running inclusive events. Patricia likes Moomins, house plants and jigsaw puzzles.


Irene Ramos
Research Fellow S2S
Irene works at the intersection of open science, data, and sustainability. As a Research Fellow at OLS, she helps co-develop training resources for project and community sustainability. She was a mentee and mentor in Open Seeds, and led the first two cohorts of the Nebula programme. Irene enjoys collaborating across disciplines and communities to advance actionable, inclusive science.


Bethan Iley
OSPARK coordinator and finance manager
Bethan joined OLS as a Resident Fellow in 2023 through our Turing Skills Policy Award collaboration with FORRT. She is now working a split role as OSPARK Coordinator and Finance Manager. Bethan’s OSPARK work involves a mixture of research and training development, but you’ll most likely see her name if OLS is paying you! Bethan enjoys mixed-methods research, crafting, and her not-so-secret side gig as an anime girl.


Riva Quiroga
Research fellow S2S
Riva joined OLS as mentor in 2023 and is currently a Research Fellow for the Seeds to Systems initiative. She is a SSI Fellow, part of the R-Ladies Global Leadership Team, a member of Programming Historian, and a local organizer of (research) software communities in Chile, where she is based. A linguist and educator by training, she is a serial volunteer for initiatives involving openness, multilingualism, research software, and community building.


Sara Villa
Community & Training
Sara joined OLS as a mentee in 2021 and has been learning all about open since then. She is part of several open communities but OLS is where she started learning all about nurturing, and that is what she is aiming to do now: NURTURING OLS community while coordinating our training programmes. Avid believer in continuous improvement and always putting people first, don't hesitate in reaching out if you want to chat with her!

 

*This is the just sub-set of the OLS team who is paid and works in a dedicated capacity on OLS, but there are also non-paid people in our team (e.g. our non-executive directors Malvika Sharan and Bérénice Batut) and, of course, the extended community of OLS!

 

 
OLS announcements
YES! you read it right! 

We’re delighted to share that Patricia Herterich has stepped into the role of OLS Co-Executive Director, as of 1 September 2025. 🥳
Patricia has been part of OLS’s journey from the start, mentoring in Cohort 1 of Open Seeds when it was still called “OLS” because it was the only program we ran! She joined the OLS staff in 2022 as our first Resident Fellow, helping shape our various Fellowship programmes over the next few years, and eventually moving on to Finance Manager and then Chief of Staff / Associate Director of Finance. 

Throughout this time, Patricia has brought a highly methodical and organised approach to the work we do, ensuring that we comply with our own policies (surprisingly hard sometimes!), all the while fiercely championing bold, generous, and compassionate approaches towards equity in our community.

 
OLS’s Five-Year Strategic Direction:
From Seeds to Systems


Imagine a world where researchers everywhere, especially those underrepresented, under-served or with fewer resources, have the opportunities and support system to transform their brilliant ideas into a tangible impact.

That’s the shared goal we at OLS have! 
Read more about it here

 

*You can also find all of our blog posts and stories in our website: check them out!

 

 
What's new in the open
From surviving to thriving
A Convening to Reclaim and Sustain Open Science Communities

"we can ensure that the future of open science is not only innovative, but also equitable, sustainable, and resilient."

Read more
ConveRSE:
Let's talk about Mental health
"It's better to raise a red flag,
before you're forced to wave a white one!"

Check out the initiative
 

We are reading...
Brave Work. Tough Conversations. Whole Hearts.

Brene Brown is one of the voices we follow in OLS. Her approach to values-led leadership is something that we embrace in OLS. Seeing the power in this book, we decide to share it. 
When we dare to lead, we don’t pretend to have the right answers; we stay curious and ask the right questions.

Check it out and tell us what you think! We love discussing about daring to lead! 

Check the book and resources here

We are listening to...
The Knowledge Catalyst Podcast is a podcast and an Open Science Community project, where we hear from the voices of researchers about how they tackle some of the biggest challenges in their field with open science. 

You might also find some familiar voices in there ;) 

List of episodes
 
Open for contributions! 
Whether you want to highlight your own open initiatives, or you just want to share what you find openly, feel free to add your contributions to our next newsletter issue in here.

